Hello and welcome to the third big,
real-world project in this course.
And so this one is of course, about CSS grids.
So without further ado, let me show it to you.
So here it is.
This is the project that we're gonna code in this section.
So this is the landing page of a fictional company
called "nexter" which sells luxury home across the world.
And so their slogan is your own home,
the ultimate personal freedom.
Okay, so once again, I designed and built
this project specifically just for this course
and the goal of this project is basically
to use as many grids here as possible.
Okay, so there are not these fancy effects going on
like we had in the other project,
but instead, I really focused on the CSS grid here.
And so the entire layout of the page is of course
a CSS grid and then I also used grids
in many smaller components.
Like, for example, here on this side here,
we have a CSS grid, then this entire header works as a grid.
For example, these elements here
are also laid out in a grid.
Of course, when you come down here,
you see that this is also a grid here,
and these images are also laid out as a grid,
and so you see that all of these components here
are really designed so that we can use grids
in many different situations
so that we can apply all of these properties
that I showed you in the last section
in real-world scenarios, okay.
So this beautiful card here is also entirely coded up
in grid and so you will see how easily it is actually
to build it with grids.
So you will see how little CSS
we actually have to write, okay.
Then down here, of course, you'll see
this is yet another grid
and that this time with a typical application
which is like an image gallery like you have here,
and then just a small footer, okay.
And of course this entire thing is completely responsive,
as well, so let's check that out, okay.
So let's make it a bit smaller maybe, okay.
So you see this is the page
and then of course it's completely responsive, as well.
So, for example, at this width here,
you see that this changes from this three-column
to these two columns here, okay.
Down here also everything changes
and here now you have two columns, as well, and yeah.
You see that also the sidebar moved up here to the top
and when we reduced this even further,
then of course, we have this one-column layout, basically,
with everything in a mobile view.
Okay, so I hope you too are excited about this project.
I really tried to make it beautiful again
just like the other projects,
so that you feel great about yourself
once you finished it and show potential clients
that you build this here with the new CSS grid technology.
Okay, and so, I hope that you already downloaded
the starter files to start with this project
from the GitHub repository that I included
in the beginning of the course.
So I already have the starter files here on the desktop
and I already have it opened here in VS Code, okay.
So let's very quickly go through
the starter files that I have here
and this is actually very similar
to the last Trilo project, okay.
So we have a CSS folder, then we have the images
and we actually have a lot of images this time, okay.
Then we have the SASS folder and you notice
that this time I already created the CSS files
so that we don't have to create them one by one
and they are already here, imported in this main file
and so I don't have to do all this in the videos.
And so you see that the architecture here is also
slightly different than what we had in the last project.
So I have now one file for each part
of the website, basically,
but I'm gonna go deeper
into why I did it this way a bit later.
What matters for now is that we're gonna start
with the base CSS file,
where this time I also already have
the color variables here
and also some font variables, okay.
Then, of course, also the index file
where we have the Google fonts already included.
This time it's called Josef and Sans
and something called Nunito or something.
Then, of course, the styles are already included,
the favicon, the title is already here
and then the empty body element, okay.
And finally, also, the package json file
and this is, again, very similar to the last Trilo project.
So we have our watch CSS and devserver script here
to basically start our development workflow,
where at the same time we watch for SASS changes
and we have our devserver.
Then down here is this our build process
and I'm gonna talk about that a bit later, all right.
So up here we say Nexter
and Nexter webpage as the description
and so everything is ready to work here.
Now let's actually install these dev dependencies
that we have here because you see,
we have no node modules folder here, on the left side.
So we have to open up our terminal
and do NPM install here.
So let me increase this a bit for you.
So cd desktop and three Nexter
and you can of course navigate
to wherever your project file is located on your file system
and now I'm going to run NPM install
and remember that what this does
is that basically it looks at our packaged dot json file
and then installs all of these dev dependencies
that we have listed here in this file
and now you'll see that the folders are already here
and so let's now, very quickly, just to test
if everything works, let's start by creating
our global settings here in this base dot SCSS file, okay.
So we start very quickly with our global reset,
so we see everything,
including the sudo elements, before and after,
and as always, we set their margin to zero
and their padding to zero
and we also say box sizing inherit
and we're then gonna inherit that from the HTML.
Okay, and so this is where we have box sizing
set to border box and I already explained to you
why we did it this way in the last project, right.
Now another thing that we do here in the HTML, always,
is to set our overall font size
and so we're gonna go with the same technique
that I showed you before.
So we're gonna set it to 62.5 percent
and that's so that one rem equals exactly ten pixels, okay.
So let me actually write it down here for you, once again.
So 10 pixels divided by 16 pixels,
which is the browser default,
makes 62.5 percent, and so this way,
one rem equals 10 pixels, okay.
And now, just global font settings on the body element
and so we set the font family
and actually I already have a variable here
so we set it to font primary
and the primary font is then this Nunito font here, okay.
Then the color that I chose should be this color,
gray dark here, so color gray dark, so it's this one here.
So again we have our primary color of course
which is this gold color.
So I chose gold color for this brand
because it's luxury homes,
as I was telling you in the beginning,
and so, therefore, gold seemed to be a good
color choice for that, okay.
Then the secondary color is like this very dark blue,
which plays very well with gold,
and so that's why I chose that.
And then we have, of course,
the lighter grays, as always,
and the dark grays and they're like a bit,
also like brown and that's because
that compliments the gray primary color
in a bit better than if we would just have used
a pure black-based gray.
So you see here on the color thing here
that this is close to the gray sides
but also in a bit in the golden part of the color spectrum.
So let's then actually use that
color gray dark too, okay.
The font weight that we want is 300
and I can use 300 because that's what I included
here from the Google font, okay.
So I have Nunito and I have font weights
of 300 and 300 in italics
and the same here for the Josefin Sans
which will be more for titles, okay.
So I chose the Nunito font as the overall font family
because it's a bit more neutral
and then this Josefin Sans we have in weights
300, 400, and 400 italic,
and this one will be for the titles.
So this time we have two fonts, okay.
So font weight of 300
and so it's kind of a thinner font
and that gives it once again a bit more
a luxury feel to the entire page
and that's what we're looking for in design like this.
Finally, the line height should be 1.6.
And now let's just add some dummy text here
just so that we can test if our development workflow
is actually working properly.
So let's check out the terminal actually here
and yeah, it looks like everything worked just fine
and so now we can do NPM run start,
but before we do that actually let's
come back to the package dot json file
and we can do one small change here in the live server
and that is to set the browser
because if we just run it like this
then it will basically launch our default browser
for the devserver and so it will launch Google Chrome
but remember that because of the CSS grid dev tools
that we want to make use of,
we have been using Firefox in this part of the course
and so we're gonna do that in this project as well
and so what we can do here is to specify
the browser option, so we write browser and then Firefox
and so it will automatically open up in Firefox
instead of Google Chrome, okay.
So NPM run start, and actually for the start script,
I'm not sure if I have told you this in another lecture,
but for the start command,
we actually don't even need to type run, okay.
So for start, we just need to type NPM start
and now let's see and yeah, here we go.
So, test text, however it doesn't really look like
our SASS style is already applying here
and I'm sure that's because we still
have to save the file.
So remember that here this SASS script
that we're running here, so this one here,
the watch SASS task, which is the one that we're running,
is waiting for changes and so it's only gonna compile
the SASS file when we save it, okay.
So let's give this one a save.
I didn't even change anything,
but I just saved it, okay.
And so let's check it out here
and yeah, it's changed something
and so let's go to Firefox and so now you'll see it changed.
Let's actually get it back to 100 percent here,
and so now you see here that this is the lighter gray text
and already with the font family that I specified
and so just as before, we have the final version here
on this site so that we can take a look
at what we wanted to build and then here,
of course, our development version.
And so right now we're ready to start
with a project and so that's what we're gonna do
in the next lecture, where we're gonna start
building the over-layout of this page.
So I hope you are excited for that
and so come join me in the next video.